Research Abstract:
Title: The combined effects of scale and conflicting range size methods on patterns of weighted endemism.
Aim: The most commonly used method of calculating species’ range sizes for weighted endemism is area of occupancy (AOO). An alternative and less utilised method is extent of occurrence (EOO). As each method gives different interpretations of what it means to be ‘restricted’ as an endemic species, we see considerably different patterns of weighted endemism when each method is used. As the difference between AOO and EOO range sizes is inherently scale (i.e. grid cell size) dependent, I explore the combined effect of scale and choice of range size method on patterns of weighted endemism, and the implications this can have in biodiversity conservation.
Methods: Using Australian occurrence data of five Myrtaceae genera, I measured the difference between AOO and EOO ranges at four different grid cell sizes. To evaluate the combined effect of scale and choice of range size method on the differences in (1) patterns of weighted endemism, and (2) selection of endemic hotspots, I created two metrics: endemism difference (ED) and hotspot difference (HD), respectively. Both metrics were measured using 31 different grid cell sizes.
Results: As grid cell size increased, the percentage of species with AOO ranges larger than EOO ranges increased. Both ED and HD increased with cell size, with the magnitude and pattern of that relationship being highly variable and genera specific.
Main Conclusions: The impact of scale on the difference between EOO and AOO range sizes was unexpected. Contradictory to popular belief, as cell size increased, AOO became larger than, not more similar to, EOO, for many species. This range size effect likely contributed to the positive relationship seen between cell size and both ED and HD. The genera specificity and high variability of ED and HD was likely due to differences in species sensitivity to scale as well as the impacts of grid structure allocation over each species distribution. This study highlights the importance of more detailed discussion and investigation of these effects in both the weighted endemism and broader literature, ensuring that if conservation recommendations are made, we can be confident that biodiversity is being represented in the way we intended.

To use this code, it is recommended that occurence record data frames are in the form of 3 columns ("species", "latitude", "longitude" and in that order). For the species names, spaces between words are recommended.
